There was this secure industrial estate. At
the entrance to that estate, there was this
security guard and for nearly twenty years,
every Friday, there will be this man who takes
a wheelbarrow filled with something. It is
hay. And, hay is allowed to be taken outside.
Hay. But, the security guard smelt a rat..
This guy looked sneaky and seemed to be cheating,
stealing something hidden inside the hay.
For many years, he used laser beams and scanners
on the wheelbarrows, he conducted a lie-detector
test on the guy, but he was never able to
find out what he was stealing in those wheelbarrows.
Guess what happened when this guy retired?!
Namaste!
386th episode. And, we are talking about something
we have touched upon earlier too. The obviousness
of some solutions. Velippadai Vimala. Or,
Obvious Adams.
See, THIS was the Declaration of Independence.
In 1776, the American Declaration, the key
passage starts like this. We hold these truths
to be self-evident. That is how it starts.
It is self-evident. It goes without saying.
It is obvious for anybody with basic common
sense.
That phrase — self-evident. I don’t even
need to spell it out. It is THAT obvious.
But then, why are they putting it up in the
Declaration of Independence? Sometimes, the
most obvious, the most self-evident things,
need to be probably laid out.
This man is Friedrich Gauss. This famous mathematician,
even at a very young age, showed a lot of
aptitude for mathematics! There is even this
apocryphal story about him. The math teacher,
as she was busy, as the kids were making too
much noise in class, wanting to keep them
all engaged, she plans to give them a hard
a problem, hoping to keep them busy with calculations
for a long period, hoping to do her work during
that time. This math teacher gives them a
summation problem.
She says — Total the numbers one to hundred.
And give me the answer. Less than 30 seconds
later, Friedrich comes in and says, “Ma’am,
I have finished solving the problem”. “Whaaat”,
she exclaims, “Already?”. The teacher
is shocked. And, that’s when the OBVIOUS
answer comes out from Gauss. What’s the
OBVIOUS answer?
Well, Gauss says, “See, I looked at the
first and the last. I looked at the second
and the second to last. I looked at the third…
and so on…! I realised each of them summed
up to 101. There were fifty such. And, that’s
how I calculated my sum!” And that’s how
Gauss shocks the maths teacher. The obvious
sometimes stares you in the face.
Virender Sehwag, we know him, the swashbuckling
mad genius that he was, in 2017, he was applying
for a coach role for the Indian cricket team.
Somebody seems to have encouraged him, and
it seems he sent two sentences. Just two.
I have played for the Indian team. And, I
know these boys very well. Just two sentences.
He didn’t get selected. And, we are not
sure whether that was good or bad for the
team, in retrospect! But, two sentences. Stating
the obvious.
In Twitter, many people took this viral, and
gave some mock responses too. One tweet said,
“See ball. Hit ball.” That was his philosophy
all along. No respect to the bowler. And,
no respect to his own score. The number of
centuries that he scored moving from 95 to
101 by smashing a sixer is the story of legend.
Another tweet said, “309. 319.” It is
a reference to something that even Sachin
couldn’t reach. Two triple centuries in
Test matches. Stating the obvious.
This is what I want to talk to you about today.
I recently encountered a book titled “Obvious
Adams”. It came out during the First World
War. A book from 1916. Robert Updegraff is
the author. Nice name, don’t you think?
If you read him, you will go “up de graph”!
It is touted to be the most important marketing
book that you haven’t heard of. The best
marketing book that you haven’t heard of!
Well, wanting to know what on earth such a
book contained, I dove in. It is a 65-page
book. That’s all. You can finish reading
it in probably 25–30 minutes. But, it is
about the obvious. And, it is about how hard
it is to approach it in the obvious manner.
Too often, we make things too hard. We get
too cute. We try too much. And we forget…
that the approach is basically, identify the
essential, state it very clearly, as clearly
as possible, and execute it in as straightforward
a manner as possible. “Just doing that is
enough” is the essence of this book!
It is about a guy, Mr. Adams. He gets the
name “Obvious Adams” later. And, Mr. Adams
actually sees a very famous advertising agency,
sees their output, and falls in love with
it. And he decides, this should be my career
path. What does he do next? He walks straight
to that company. To its headquarters. Meets
the person at the frontdesk. And says, “I
am here to meet Mr. Oswald”. “Okay, but
he is a very busy man.. I don’t know if
you have an appointment”, she says. “Well,
I will wait till 10:35 AM”, says Adams.
He has COME for the interview, and he is declaring
how long he would wait… But that was the
obvious thing. Because he had something else
to do that day, he stated the obvious! Intrigued
by this, Mr. Oswald, realises that there is
somebody unique and interesting and invites
this guy into the room. And, Oswald wants
to know what’s up and that guy says:- “I
am enamoured by your amazing quality of output.
I want to be in this field. I want to work
with you. Failing which, I might compete with
you.” A kid. Born just yesterday. Declares
“Take me into your company, or I might end
up a competitor, because I am sold on the
idea of advertising, and I would be doing
that for my life. So, take me, or… fight
me!” Seeing that this boy is unique and
unusual, he recruits him.
The second lesson that we learn in the life
of Obvious Adams is.. this boy is not immediately
given the role of a Creative Director. He
is asked to work in the Mail Room. Clean stuff.
Move papers. He DOES that. And he comes up
with approaches where one could save half
an hour if something were optimised. Approaches
where one could reduce errors if something
were done differently. New and innovative
solutions. And then, one day, during a coffee
break, he meets Mr. Oswald and says: “Actually
you can recruit a girl for half my salary,
and she can do the work that I am doing. I
think I am capable of doing much more”.
He greets the boss with this claim. Up for
a challenge, Oswald takes it up, and gives
him a better role. But again, the best advertising
campaigns don’t come to Mr. Adams. What
does Adams do? He does those campaigns in
parallel. Even after knowing that there is
no chance for Oswald to see the work he is
doing in parallel, for the sheer experience,
for the exposure, he creates similar, parallel,
advertising campaigns, that nobody gets to
see. Until, one day, when Oswald comes to
Adams’ room for something else, he sees
these scratched up notes lying on the table
casually. And he sees some gold nuggets there.
He takes them up and realises that these are
probably better than the campaigns that he
has been running. So, the lesson here? Do
your work! Today, the trend seems to be automation,
optimisation, outsourcing… people are looking
to replace people with processes! Just doing
what you are asked to do, just being obedient
and prompt is not enough! Go the extra mile!
Remember the phrase people use in the workplace?
“He is such a gem!” — What do you think
that gem refers to? G E M. Go the Extra Mile!
Did you get it??
The third thing in the Obvious Adams book,
in the history, in the story of Obvious Adams,
is the way he understands the audience. He
goes to a paper mill. He learns how bondpaper
is manufactured there. And he writes his copy
for the ad. We use the purest of waters. We
roll it in the cleanest of environments. The
paper we use for it comes from the best of
trees. And so on. The paper-mill owner starts
laughing. Do you think we called you for this
sort of nonsense? Go to any paper mill and
you will learn that is how we do it. Every
bondpaper is prepared like that. To which,
Obvious Adams asks him a question:- Hey, are
you selling paper to papermakers or paperusers??
I have been a paperuser for 25 years now.
Until I visited your mill today, I didn’t
know that this was the process. And I am sure
that that is the story with everybody out
there! So, do the obvious! And make it synonymous
with your brand. And that is how you build
a competitive advantage from the others who
come and catch up later. So, that is how he
promotes the papermill brand and that becomes
very famous. We have seen too many campaigns
that seem to say the same thing, the thing
that everybody else says anyway. But, that
stating of the obvious, that repetition a
thousand times so the people finally get it?
The credit goes to the person who manages
to do that!
And finally, he says, Thinking is the hardest
thing we all do. The brain is lazy! People
need to be reminded much more often than they
need to be instructed. Saying things ONCE
is NOT enough!
For example, your brain is so lazy that it
didn’t read all those Yous.
Not just that! Your brain is SO lazy that
it didn’t notice that one of those Yous
was a Yoo! Try looking for it!
So, having been cursed with a lazy brain like
that, the reality of the matter is.. Everything
that needed to be said, has already been said.
Yes. But, not everybody was listening, and
so, it deserves to be said again!!
I saw a book recently — Psychology of Money
— is the title. We will talk a lot about
it in future episodes. Morgan Housell is the
name of the author. He brings up a beautiful
reference from Napoleon. Regarding war strategy.
Which Morgan says, is so relevant even in
the world of investing. What is that? He says,
“Investing genius is all about doing the
AVERAGE thing when all those around are going
crazy!” It is not about doing special and
amazing things! Do the average thing! Do the
most obvious thing. Too many people are missing
it out. Too many people are getting too cute,
overthinking.
Remember that story? What WAS he stealing
after all? Finally, on the day of his retirement,
he confronts the guy and asks, “I can’t
arrest you now. You are retiring. I am retiring
soon too. You surely were stealing something,
weren’t you?” To which that guy is supposed
to have responded with, “I was stealing
wheelbarrows!” Isn’t it obvious now?!
We will meet again on the fifteenth. Thank
you!